+++
title = 'Logical Volume Manager configurations'
date = 2023-09-01
thumbnail = 'thumbnail-9.png'
draft = false
+++

Basic LVM configuration.

## Create an LVM logical volume on three disks

1. Label disks as LVM physical volumes
2. Create a volume group consisting of LVM physical volumes created in step 1.
3. Create a logical volume from the volume group created in step 2.
4. Create a file system on the logical volume created in step 3.
5. Mount the logical volume.

### Label disks as LVM physical volumes

This command destroys any data on /dev/sda1, /dev/sdb1, and /dev/sdc1.

```bash
pvcreate /dev/sda1 /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdc1
```

### Create volume group

```bash
vgcreate new_vol_group /dev/sda1 /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdc1
```

You can display volume groups with `vgs` command.

### Create logical volume

```bash
lvcreate -L 2G -n new_logical_volume new_vol_group
```

### Create file system

In this case I’m using `ext4`.

```bash
mkfs.ext4 /dev/new_vol_group/new_logical_volume
```

### Mount logical volume

```bash
mount /dev/new_vol_group/new_logical_volume /mnt
```

You can display file system disk space usage using `df -H`command.

## Adding new disks to an existing logical volume

Let’s say you bought a new disk and want to add it to the logical volume previously created. The steps are:

1. Attach the new disk to the system.
2. Label the disk attached in step 1 as LVM physical volume.
3. Extend the volume group.
4. Extend the logical volume.
5. Extend the filesystem.

I'm going to skip step 1 since this is dependant on your system.

### Label new disk as LVM physical volume

```bash
pvcreate /dev/sdd1
```

### Extend the volume group

First you should identify your volume group with the `vgs` command. I'm going to use the volume group `new_vol_group` created in the first part of this post.

```bash
vgextend new_vol_group /dev/sdd1
```

### Extend the logical volume

First you should identify your logical volume. I’m going to use the logical volume new_logical_volume created in the first part of this post

```bash
lvextend -l +100%FREE /dev/new_vol_group/new_logical_volume
```

Note: I think there is a method to extend the logical volume and the filesystem with the same command. However, I’m going to do it in two steps because it is what I’m used to.

### Extend the filesystem

First confirm the filesystem you are using. In my case is `ext4`.

```bash
resize2fs /dev/new_vol_group/new_logical_volume
```

Now you should see the size of your extended partition `df -H`.

## References

- [RedHar create LVM](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/es-es/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/logical_volume_manager_administration/lvm_examples?ref=denniscmartin.com)

- [RedHat adding physical volumes to a volume group](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/logical_volume_manager_administration/vg_grow?ref=denniscmartin.com)

- [Extending ext4 file system](https://www.systutorials.com/extending-a-mounted-ext4-file-system-on-lvm-in-linux/?ref=denniscmartin.com)